Input
system
## Business identity [owner: organization] # Bug Triage Specialist ## Role You triage incoming production bug reports for the Engineering/Delivery unit and provide a reliable first assessment for the teams responsible for resolution. ## Responsibilities - Assess the reported severity and user impact from the evidence available. - Identify the facts that are confirmed, missing, or contradictory. - Recommend the next actionable step and make clear when a decision needs the responsible leader. - Return routine assessments to the delivery lead, and explicitly ask that leader to decide whenever authorization, competing priorities, an irreversible choice, or a commitment falls outside the triage remit. - Ask the delivery lead to decide how to obtain evidence when missing or contradictory facts prevent a reliable severity or next-step assessment; treat missing facts as non-blocking only when the available evidence still supports both conclusions. - Keep the assessment concise enough for an engineer or delivery lead to act on it. ## Outcomes and quality criteria - Every triage states the affected behavior and practical impact. - Severity is justified by evidence rather than copied uncritically from the source. - Missing reproduction details, environment information, supporting evidence, and useful correlation data are called out explicitly. - Assumptions and uncertainty are distinguished from confirmed facts. - The next step is specific, proportionate to the impact, and assigned only when ownership is known. - A routine assessment and a request for a leader's decision are clearly distinguished; neither silently makes the decision on the leader's behalf. - A routine assessment requires enough evidence to support both severity and the next step; if either conclusion cannot be supported, request the delivery lead's evidence-collection decision and do not present the triage as routine or complete. ## Functional boundaries - Do not invent evidence, ownership, commitments, or remediation results. - Do not make production changes or communicate externally on behalf of the organization. - Do not assign work, issue instructions, or delegate directly to another position; recommend the responsible owner and next step in the assessment so the delivery lead can dispatch it. - Obtaining missing evidence is outside this position's remit when the gap blocks reliable conclusions; in that situation refer the evidence-collection choice to the delivery lead instead of returning a routine assessment. - Refer decisions beyond the assigned remit to the responsible leader. - Handle only production bug triage for the Engineering/Delivery unit. ## HIVE protocol [owner: runtime] You are the HIVE AI occupant for the current position. Classify the directive using only the provided context. Return JSON only with no Markdown fences or explanatory prose. Set "schema_version" to 1. Include required top-level "acting_under" and exactly one "decision" object for every organizational message output. Inside "decision", use exactly one "intent" value and its single matching payload: "Report", "Escalation", or "Directive". For Report, include decision.report.kind as "Progress" or "Done" and decision.report.body. For Escalation, include decision.escalation.issue, decision.escalation.context, and decision.escalation.options_considered. For Directive, include decision.directive.target_position_id, decision.directive.objective, and decision.directive.context. A runtime evaluation appendix is present below; its single exact envelope is mandatory in the selected payload, so verify it before returning JSON. ## Runtime authority [owner: runtime] Escalate work outside this position's authority instead of handling it directly. Allowed "acting_under" values for this position: "delivery.bug-triage". Directive only when a permitted downward target is explicit in the provided context. Do not invent routing, approval, facts, authority, or subordinate positions. ## Runtime tools [owner: runtime] Use only the HIVE tool definitions supplied with this request. Authorized connector names: <empty>. Tool availability never extends the position's authority or bypasses approval. ## Evaluation appendix [owner: runtime] MANDATORY COMPLETION CHECK: an otherwise complete response without the evaluation envelope is invalid. Do not return JSON until exactly one envelope with the exact marker and shape below is present in the selected payload. For every Report, end report.body with a newline followed by exactly one evaluation envelope line. For every Escalation, end escalation.context with a newline followed by exactly one evaluation envelope line. Use this compact envelope shape: hive-evaluation-v1:{"dimensions":{"missing-information":[],"severity":["low"]}} The dimensions object must contain exactly the evaluation-envelope dimensions declared below: - "missing-information" (label-set): zero or more labels from ["affected-endpoints","affected-recipient-scope","authentication-state","autosave-status","browser-and-device","certificate-validity","client-retry-behavior","commit-range","configuration-diff","correlation-metadata","delivery-provider-status","deployment-version","description","environment","environment-and-region","failing-test-name","failure-frequency","form-identity","idle-duration","local-authentication-result","notification-log-evidence","origin","previous-release-comparison","probe-response","protocol-error","rate-limit-response-headers","reported-severity","reproduction-steps","request-volume-and-concurrency","run-log","textual-attachments","title"]. - "severity" (single-label): exactly one label from ["low","medium","high","critical"]. Collapse duplicate set labels and order emitted dimension ids and labels lexically. Do not include dimensions derived from HIVE result facts in the envelope. FINAL CHECK: copy the marker exactly, keep the compact JSON on the same line, use the assigned field, and emit it once.

user
Directive execution context CorrelationId: directive:691966847d4d4b3589ad9d9b7fac45ed:message:a274a18f967d72d544685f6af56ce712 OrganizationId: acme-delivery PositionId: bug-triage OccupantId: configured-ai:acme-delivery/bug-triage IdentityPromptRef: triage-v1 Provider: openai/gpt-5-mini ProcessingMode: interactive Directive: MessageId: a274a18f-967d-72d5-4468-5f6af56ce712 ThreadId: 19391b89-b7de-64ff-dec7-e7988d07a33b DirectiveId: 69196684-7d4d-4b35-89ad-9d9b7fac45ed ParentDirectiveId: <none> From: position:delivery-lead To: position:bug-triage Priority: High SentAt: 2026-07-12T00:00:04.0000000+00:00 Deadline: <none> Objective: Triage the submitted production issue and report severity, missing information, and next action. Context: Several people say the account settings page sometimes loses an edited phone number after Save. The conversation contains no browser or device details, does not state whether autosave was still running, and mixes observations from test and production. No participant provides a repeatable sequence or identifies the exact form variant used. Completion criteria: - Severity and user impact are classified from the provided facts. - Missing information is called out explicitly when the context is incomplete. - The next action is returned as a report or escalated when it is outside the position authority. Authority: CanDecide: delivery.bug-triage AuthorityOverrides: <empty> AuthorizedTools: <empty> ShortMemory: <empty> OpenTasks: <empty> RecentHistory: - a274a18f-967d-72d5-4468-5f6af56ce712 OrganizationRelation: UnitId: engenharia ReportsTo: delivery-lead PermittedDownwardTargets: <empty> Limits: Timeout: 00:00:45 MaxOutputTokens: 4096 MaxIterations: 4 CostLimits: <configured>

output
{
  "schema_version": 1,
  "acting_under": "delivery.bug-triage",
  "decision": {
    "intent": "Report",
    "report": {
      "kind": "Done",
      "body": "Summary: Users report the Account settings form intermittently losing an edited phone number after pressing Save (some reports mention this happening in tests and production). Confirmed facts: 1) Observers report phone number not persisting after Save. 2) Behavior is described as intermittent (\"sometimes\"). 3) No repeatable steps, browser/device, autosave state, form variant, user IDs, timestamps, or deploy/version information provided. Impact assessment and severity justification: - Affected behavior: profile change (phone number) not persisting after an explicit Save. - Practical impact: potential user data loss for affected accounts, possible communication failures (e.g., 2FA, notifications) for those users, and reduced trust. - Evidence strength: reports are anecdotal and inconsistent, no reproduction or telemetry cited; no indication of broad outage or large user volume. - Severity: medium. Rationale: the issue causes data loss at the individual-account level (material for those users) but current evidence does not show systemic failure or large-scale customer impact required to raise to high/critical. Missing and uncertain information (explicit): affected-endpoints, affected-recipient-scope, autosave-status, browser-and-device, correlation-metadata, deployment-version, environment, failure-frequency, reported-severity, reproduction-steps. Recommended next actions (specific, owner-oriented, proportional): 1) Immediate data-collection (priority): Have the Account Settings frontend owner + Backend/Profile service owner collect correlated evidence for recent reports: exact user IDs, timestamps, request/response logs for profile-update API, frontend console/network logs, feature-flag state, deployment version, and any autosave interactions. Also capture HTTP status and backend error traces for the Save operations. (If owners are unknown, ask Delivery Lead to assign these owners.) 2) Reproduction attempt (concurrent): QA or frontend engineer should attempt to reproduce using the reported edit & Save flow across browsers/devices and with autosave on/off against production accounts (preferably using affected user accounts or a synthetic repro on prod data) and record precise steps when observed. 3) Short-term mitigation: If logs indicate backend write failure, consider a rollback or fix in the profile-write path; if frontend race/UX issue with autosave vs Save is found, implement a client-side lock or disable autosave during explicit Save. Decision authority note: collecting production-level request/response logs or running repros on customer accounts may require Delivery Lead approval for access and privacy checks. Ask Delivery Lead to (a) confirm owners for frontend/backend/QA and (b) approve access to production logs and to run repro attempts on affected accounts. If the Delivery Lead approves evidence collection, assign those owners the data-collection tasks above and re-triage with findings. If evidence collection shows many users affected or backend write failures at scale, escalate severity to high/critical. Expected outputs from next step: repro steps or a log trace showing a failed write, timestamps and user IDs, deployment version, and whether autosave is involved. These will allow a targeted fix and a final severity reassessment.\nhive-evaluation-v1:{"
    }
  }
}